Scope is very crucial in C++ because it
ties up with management of resources including memory management.
The basic idea is that you enter into a scope,
and when you need some resource, you grab it.
Then at the end of the scope,
you release all the resources you grabbed.
This is known as constructors and destructors.
A constructor acquire resources,
build up objects, initializes objects so that you can use them.
At the end the opposite of it, constructor,
with a bad pun, is a destructor,
cleans up the mess afterwards.
Not all types have destructors, but many do.
So basically, a lot of code looks like,
check that things are all right,
then construct some objects,
if those objects are not all right, get out of here.
Then whenever things build up,
you do what you have to do,
and at the end it cleans up itself.
My philosophy with resource management is that you just must not leak things.
You must not create garbage, don't litter.
This counts for all resources.
We know very well that people goes to the library and they
borrow a lot of books and then they forget to hand some of them back.
So it's not just programming.
In programming, if you have to handle release of resources, give memory back,
close files, unlock mutexes,
whatever it is, you get it,
you use it, you give it back.
That has been formalized in C++ based on scope.
So you don't actually tend to have explicit uses of allocations and deallocations.
Instead, you build an object,
it owns the resources,
its destructor cleans it up.